The first thing we're going to need is a few more variables.
You know what let me come down here and I'll just change this.
Maybe I could just type in 125 and let's zoom in a bit.
There we go.
Just makes it a little bigger in the screen here.
So let's create a few public variables that will house our face objects.
So let's create a public game object and let's call one of them run face variable.
How's that.
And let's do the same thing.
Let's just select this and copy this and paste it and we'll call this chump base.
Variable we'll do that again paste and this one can be idle base variable.
There we go.
Now when we first start the game we want to fill those variables with the actual game objects in the
scene.
These geo face objects I mean move this over so these things here.
If I search for these again type in face here and select one we can actually see the path of where they
are they're in the player idle object and they're down in the armature root spine one two neck head.
And finally the face.
Idle object and what we're gonna need to do is put in the script that path so we can tell unity where
to find this object.
So if we come back over to the script here what we want to do is say the run base variable can be found
as a game object game object find in let me put quotes in that because that's gonna be a string we're
gonna need to type in all of this.
So I'll put in a forward slash and we'll call this player underscore idle forward slash armature forward
slash root and on through all of this here.
So we've got a spine one spine to neck add and finally geo face idle so it has to all be just the same
with the same capitals the same spelling and everything.
And then of course a semicolon at the end to end the line we need two more for the jump and the idol.
So I'm just going to grab all of this and press control see control V and let's change this to jump
and we'll change this to jump back here
then let's paste again control V and let's change this one to idle
analysts put Oh we've already got idle here so Oh I see what I did wrong I need to change this to a
run.
There we go.
So we have the run face variable being filled by the GEO face run jump into the jump variable and the
idol into the idol variable.
All right I mean go ahead and click save up here and now we need to tell it what to do when we hit a
particular key.
So if we hit the up arrow key and just as an f y if you want to use the w a and d keys instead of the
arrow keys you can just change this to a W and that will automatically be seen as the w key and the
Andes key will work as well.
So just an aside there just wanted to let you know that now down here in the update what we can do is
say if we press the up arrow we turn on the geo face run object and we turn off the other two.
So to do that we can say run face variable dot set active is true
and then we want to be sure the others are turned off.
So if I copy this and paste it I can say maybe Idol based variable is going to be false
and also I can copy and paste this and this one can be the jump jump bass variable can be false.
So we're turning on the run object and turning off the other two.
All right so let's just copy all of these now control C and if we are grounded what's going to happen.
Well we can paste these and we know that for the idol or 0 here we want the idol to be true.
We want the other two to be false and we go.
Now what happens in the jump well for the jump.
We can paste these and we want the jump to be true and the other two to be false.
We go so let's see what happens.
I'm going to save the script here.
Let's go back to unity.
I'm going to hit that X here.
Turn that off.
I'm going to save.
And then let's hit the play button.
All right.
So we see the idol He's blinking he's idling and looking around now let's hit the run.
I'll hit the up arrow and now he's determined angry or whatever he's supposed to be.
And we go in back to the idol when when I released that.
Now let's hit the jump.
Now why doesn't that work.
Well I have a theory.
Let me hit the play button to turn that off.
And I think it's because if we go back into the player script we scroll down here.
What we have is when the spacebar is pushed and it's grounded we want to begin or enable this jump face
object and as soon as we enable it the animation is going to begin.
Well the problem is is it never comes off the ground.
So as long as it's staying on the ground it's continuing to be renamed.
And every time it's enabled it only plays that first frame.
So it's just being enabled again and again and again and again at every frame.
And that's why it isn't playing the animation to fix that.
What we need to do is get them up off the ground we need to go ahead and create the part of the script
that will push them up for the jump to do that.
Let's come up to the top and let's create a new variable up here.
So we have gravity.
But let's also create a public float for our jump force let's call it Jump force and let's say that
this force is equal to what gravity is 20 let's say the jump force will be 10 so ten point oh f four
float and a semicolon there.
So let's do that and then down in our jump section here we need to push him up in the Y when we hit
the spacebar.
So let's say move direction dot why instead of pulling down like we did down here let's just push up
with jump force.
Here we go.
All right.
So let's save this man I'll go back to unity and if we hit the play button
and hit the spacebar he just jumps right out of frame and we can't see if the animation for the face
turns on.
So what let's do is take this camera.
Let's take the camera and let's just parent it to that object just temporarily.
So when he jumps up the camera will go up as well.
So let's hit play and we hit the spacebar.
There he goes.
You see that.
Now it's continuing on through the animation.
So the problem was he was grounded and all the while he was grounded.
That face object continually became active and therefore continually only began say it frame one.
So it never was able to complete the animation all the way through.
All right.
Well now that we have everything set up we have the run and the jump.
Now what we need to do is get him moving around the scene.
So that's coming up next.